Located in the Western Pacific Ocean, the Mariana
Trinch is the deepest known location on Earth.
To help you get an idea of its depth, imagine that you
could stack the Empire State Building in the Trinch.
It would take 25 such buildings to go from the bottom of the
Trinch before you would reach sea level.
It is also one of the deadliest places on Earth.
Why is it?
In a word, pressure.
The crushing pressure, water pressure on the floor of the
Trinch is more than eight tons per square inch.
Now to give you some idea that would be the equivalent of
having about 50 jumbo jets on top of you.
Surely no life could live in that Trinch.
At least that's what scientists thought.
But they were wrong.
When they finally developed a submersible that would take
them down into the Trinch, they found life teaming and not
just surviving, but thriving.
Now, how is that possible?
It's possible, friends, because Jehovah, our creator,
knows how to deal with pressure.
Jehovah knows how to deal with pressure.
And this is a fact that should be comforting to all of
us, why?
Because the pressure in this system of things is increasing,
strain, stress, anxiety for all people at all levels.
And the Bible tells us that these pressures are likely to
increase in the near future.
But the good news is that Jehovah does more than just
equip his servants to survive.
You can actually make one thrive.
Here's an example.
Try this on for pressure.
You're surrounded by men who hate you.
In addition to hunting you down with a view to taking
your life, they've spread the slander and lies about you
everywhere.
Your name has become a reproach.
When people see you coming, they turn and run the
other way because they feel that your time is short
and they don't want to be caught in the crosshairs.
Wherever you look, it seems like terror is waiting for you.
And as a result of these problems, you're struggling
with depression.
Your own sins are staring you in the face.
The whole experience has taken a toll on your health.
You can't sleep.
Your stamina is shot.
Your body is wasting away.
Now, that was David's situation.
And you can read about it in Psalm 31 verses 10 through 13.
The pressure was real.
No question about it.
David's feelings were real.
No question about that.
But something else was very real.
And that was Jehovah.
And so Jehovah is where David would turn to.
Let's turn to his words in Psalm 31.
Psalm 31, and note his humble prayer beginning in verse 14.
He said, but I trust in you, O Jehovah.
I declare you are my God.
My days are in your hand.
Rescue me from the hand of my enemies and from those
persecuting me.
Make your face shine upon your servant.
Save me by your loyal love.
David's life experiences had taught him the value of turning
to God and pouring out his heart in times of trial.
And he absolutely knew that prayer coupled with implicit
trust and patience would always bring Jehovah's blessing.
And you see, friends, the key to not just surviving,
but thriving under extreme pressure
is to have the internal pressure equal to the external.
And when this is true, there is no amount of pressure
that can crush you.
So in a spiritual sense, and David received the internal
fortitude, or at some say, the intestinal fortitude,
meaning the courage and the strength that would make him equal
to the pressure weighing in on him.
And how do we know that he received that?
Well, let's go back to Psalm 31 for just a moment.
If you look at verse 21, notice now the change.
He says, it made Jehovah be praised
for in a wonderful way he has shown his loyal love to me
in a besieged city.
And then verse 23, love Jehovah.
All you who are loyal to him, Jehovah protects the faithful
and finally, verse 24, be courageous
and may your heart be strong.
All you who are waiting for Jehovah.
So you see, David received an answer to his prayer.
He, his prayer, coupled with his faith and his patience.
He was waiting on Jehovah and Jehovah helped him not only
to survive, but to thrive.
And he added joy to David.
Because David went on to find joy and happiness
in his responsibilities and privileges.
So what do we learn?
Number one.
David was able to face the pressure
because he had an unshakable faith in Jehovah.
And number two, David's relationship with Jehovah
brought him the patience to wait on God.
And number three, when a loyal servant of God
humbly turns to Jehovah for help,
it is Jehovah's own loyal love
that has the effect of equalizing the pressure.
And you know there's something else.
David's experience in the trench
reached further than he ever knew.
Jonah, while in the belly of the great fish,
cited words from Psalm 31.
Jeremiah, who had many trials
sometimes in his life, often echoed phrases
from Psalm 31.
And Jesus Christ himself, the very son of God,
his final words from the stake,
was a quotation from Psalm 31-5.
So Jesus must have meditated on this many times.
And so friends like David, Jonah, Jeremiah, Jesus,
and many, many others, they all trusted in Jehovah
and Jehovah never failed to make them equal to the pressure.
He'll do the same for you.
And so in conclusion, you see,
it really doesn't matter how great the pressure is.
It only matters where the pressure lies.
Do not let it come between you and Jehovah
and your worship and service.
Don't let it come between you.
Because then the external pressure
will only continue to move you closer
to your Heavenly Father.
The life that flourishes in the Maryana trench gives
a positive example, a beautiful example
of Jehovah's limitless ability
to help his creation deal with pressure.
Prayer, trust, and patience
will always be rewarded by Jehovah.
Relief will be rewarded by Jehovah.
Relief will come.
So remain close to your Heavenly Father
and you will not just survive the pressure in the trench.
You will thrive spiritually.